29787 text wrap (#30435)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/text-wrap/index.md

- `nowrap` {{experimental_inline}}
  - : Text does not wrap across lines. It will overflow its containing element rather than breaking onto a new line.
- `balance`
  - : Text is wrapped in a way that best balances the number of characters on each line, enhancing layout quality and legibility. Because counting characters and balancing them across multiple lines is computationally expensive, this value is only supported for blocks of text spanning a limited number of lines (six for Chromium and ten for Firefox).
- `pretty`
  - : Results in the same behavior as `wrap`, except that the user agent will use a slower algorithm that favors better layout over speed. This is intended for body copy where good typography is favored over performance (for example, when the number of [orphans](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/orphans) should be kept to a minimum).
- `stable`
  - : Results in the same behavior as `wrap`, except that when the user is editing the content the lines before, where they are editing, remain static rather than the whole block of text re-wrapping.

> ## Description

Reviewer: Maybe rewrite this entire section. Here is a take:

```suggestion
## Description

Inline-level content is laid out into lines, with line breaks breaking text across line boxes. There are two types of line breaks. A _forced line break_ occurs when a line is broken due to a newline character, the start or end of a block, or other explicit line-breaking controls such as when `{{cssxref("white-space")}}: pre` is set. A _soft line break_ is an unforced line break, such as when content naturally wraps to fit the content within its parent.

When wrapping is enabled, the `text-wrap` property defines how soft-wrap-opportunities within a line are prioritized. The value you choose depends on how many lines of text you anticipate styling, whether the text is `contenteditable`, and whether you need to prioritize appearance or performance.

When the styled content will be limited to a short number of lines, such as headings, captions, and blockquotes, `text-wrap: balance` can be added to balance the number of characters on each line, enhancing layout quality and legibility. As browsers limit the number of lines impacted by this property, this value's impact on performance is negligible.

For longer sections of text, `text-wrap: pretty` can be used. Note that `pretty` has a negative effect on performance, so it should be only used for longer blocks of text when the layout is more important than speed.

The `stable` value improves user experience when used on content that is [`contenteditable`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/contenteditable). This value ensures that, as the user is editing text, the previous lines in the area being edited remain stable.
```

Author: I have re-written this

- `nowrap`
  - : Text does not wrap across lines. It will overflow its containing element rather than breaking onto a new line.
- `balance`
  - : Text is wrapped in a way that best balances the number of characters on each line, enhancing layout quality and legibility. Because counting characters and balancing them across multiple lines is computationally expensive, this value is only supported for blocks of text spanning a limited number of lines (six for Chromium and ten for Firefox).
- `pretty`
  - : Results in the same behavior as `wrap`, except that the user agent will use a slower algorithm that favors better layout over speed. This is intended for body copy where good typography is favored over performance (for example, when the number of [orphans](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/orphans) should be kept to a minimum).
- `stable`

>   - : Results in the same behavior as `wrap`, except that the algorithm does not consider subsequent lines when making break decisions. When editing text that has already been painted to the screen, subsequent lines should not be considered when making break decisions, so that when editing text any content before the cursor remains stable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : Results in the same behavior as `wrap`, except that the algorithm does not consider subsequent lines when making break decisions. When editing text that has already been painted to the screen, subsequent lines should not be considered when making break decisions, so that, when editing text, any content before the cursor remains stable.
```

>   - : Results in the same behavior as `wrap`, except that the algorithm does not consider subsequent lines when making break decisions. When editing text that has already been painted to the screen, subsequent lines should not be considered when making break decisions, so that, when editing text, any content before the cursor remains stable.

Reviewer: This sounds like spec speak for what the browser is doing:
> When editing text that has already been painted to the screen, subsequent lines should not be considered when making break decisions
Is that browser behavior? If yes, combine the first two sentences; they're kind of saying the same thing. If this is about the developer, that needs to be a bit clearer. 
The last part, " so that, when editing text, any content before the cursor remains stable." suggest adding "the user"
>  so that, when the user is editing text, content before the cursor remains stable."

Author: reworded this whole thing

## Description

> As `balance` is limited to a short number of lines then this should generally be used for headings, captions, and blockquotes.

Reviewer 3: It might be worth mentioning what “short” means. 6 in Chrome, 10 in Firefox, or something like that?

Author: This is mentioned in description of `balance` value. Should it be repeated?

> The `pretty` value can have a negative effect on performance and should be used, for body copy (longer blocks of content), when layout is favourable over paint performance.

Reviewer 2: - comma change
- subjective parenthetical removal change
- a switch to [American-English](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Writing_style_guide#spelling)

```suggestion
The `pretty` value can have a negative effect on performance and should be only used for longer blocks of text when layout is favorable over paint performance.
```

Reviewer: This sentence may be difficult for someone not familiar with web performance to parse, especially a non-native English speaker. maybe "when the layout of the text is more important than [paint performance](link_to_article)"

Author: Updated this to **speed** rather than **paint performance** as mentioned in the spec.

> The `stable` value should be used on content that is [`contenteditable`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/contenteditable) attribute. This ensures that the previous lines remain stable when users edit the content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `stable` value should be used on content that is [`contenteditable`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/contenteditable). This ensures that the previous lines remain stable when users edit the content.
```

> The `stable` value should be used on content that has a [`contenteditable`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/contenteditable) attribute. This ensures that the preceeding lines will remain stable while a user is editing the content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `stable` value should be used on content that has a [`contenteditable`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/contenteditable) attribute. This ensures that the preceding lines will remain stable while a user is editing the content.
```

Reviewer: contenteditable is enumerated, so
```suggestion
The `stable` value should be used on content that is [`contenteditable`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/contenteditable) attribute. This ensures that the previous lines remain stable while a user edits the content.
```
I am being pedantic, but `contenteditable` is both enumerated and inherited, meaning if present, it doesn't mean it's editable, and if omitted, it doesn't mean it isn't editable.
